---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Modules"
title: Cascader
subtitle: "A menu displays a list of choices on a temporary surface. They appear when users interact with a list item, action item, or other control."
permalink: /web/cascader/
---

## Overview

Cascader allows users to choose from a large variety of choices, by displaying menus with multiple levels of hierarchy. They save screen space by organizing a long list of items into categories that the user can click to reveal deeper levels.<br>

They are organized into menus of parent list items that contain child list items. Child list items appear to the right or left of parent list items, depending on where there is room to expand child list items.

### When to use

- When you need to select from a set of associated data set. Such as province/city/district, company level, things classification.
- When selecting from a large data set, with multi-stage classification separated for easy selection.

## Guidelines
**Interaction** <br>
Cascade menu opens with mouse hover: hovering the group name reveals nested options. Group name stays in selected state to serve as a breadcrumb. Hovering outside of the menu dismisses all menus.

**Placement** <br>
By default a cascade menu pops up on the right side of its root menu. But if there is no room on the left, expanded child list items can be shown on the left side as well.

**Menu display width** <br>
The display width of the cascade items should accommodate the length of the longest option value.

**Labels** <br>
Use sentence case and write concise labels that clearly indicate the purpose of the selection.

## Example usage
Insert code snippet here
