---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Modules"
title: Cards
subtitle: "Cards are surfaces that display content and actions on a single topic."
permalink: /web/cards/
---

**Note:** Cards page is still work in progress as all cards types and their usage are not defined yet. You'll get an update as soon as the page is finished.

## Overview

Cards should be easy to scan for relevant and actionable information. Elements, like text and images, should be placed on them in a way that clearly indicates hierarchy.
Cards may be as minimal as having a title with an icon and description to being more detailed to include a chart, live metrics, or metadata.

### When to use
Use a cards pattern when creating a collection of items, where each item surfaces a large amount of information in a similar schema. You can use cards in following cases:
- When presenting a collection of high-level pieces of information (e.g. charts)
- When presenting a menu of options (e.g. a list of issues)
- Best for sets of items which can best be consumed visually

### When not to use
- When content needs to be analyzed, sorted, compared and filtered, [Grids module](../grids/) may be more appropriate.

## Guidelines
**Content** <br>
- Limit content to under 100 characters or no more than two short sentences.
- Provide a visual hierchy to content.
- Only one idea or subject in one card.
- Differentiate the card from its background using color, border, shadow, or contrast.

**Actions** <br>
- The card typically behaves as a singular action item (like a big button).
- Secondary actions should be differentiated visually and behaviorally.
- Do not include inline links/anchors.

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Cards_Do.png"
  do-text="Differ secondary actions visually and behaviorally."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Cards_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not use one pattern for primary and secondary actions on the card."
%}

## Type
Each card type has a particular function and it is very important that the different variants of cards are implemented consistently across products, so that we keep the design clean and consistent.

<!-- Content switch -->
<!-- Content switch tab 1 -->
{% capture type-stats %}
{% include snippet.html code='
Include code snippet 1 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 2 -->
{% capture type-charts %}
{% include snippet.html code='
Include code snippet 2 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 3 -->
{% capture type-update %}
{% include snippet.html code='
Include code snippet 3 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 4 -->
{% capture type-action %}
{% include snippet.html code='
Include code snippet 4 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 5 -->
{% capture type-table %}
{% include snippet.html code='
Include code snippet 5 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 6 -->
{% capture type-combination %}
{% include snippet.html code='
Include code snippet 6 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Render Content -->
{% include content-switch.html for="type"
           content-1-label="Stats"
           content-1=type-stats
           content-2-label="Charts"
           content-2=type-charts
           content-3-label="Update"
           content-3=type-update
           content-4-label="Action"
           content-4=type-action
           content-5-label="Table"
           content-5=type-table
           content-6-label="Combination"
           content-6=type-combination
%}
<!-- End content switch -->

<br>

## Live Preview
