---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Modules"
title: Tabs
subtitle: "Tabs are a navigational element used to show and pivot between related subsections of an interface."
permalink: /web/tabs/
---

## Overview

Tabs are used to quickly navigate between views within the same context. Tab labels provide clear and concise explanations of the content within. Each tab's content is independently categorized and mutually exclusive of the content of other tabs.

### When to use

Tabs are used to separate information into logical sections and to quickly navigate between them.
- Use tabs when you have sub-sections of a page, and there's the need to only show one sub-section at a time.
- Use tabs when there is a large amount of content that can be separated.
- Use tabs to make the content accessible without reloading the page or compromising on space.
Different tab-panes should be logically related but mutually exclusive. A content element should only be in one tab at a time.

### When not to use

In most scenarios, you should use no more than six tabs. This maintains an uncluttered UI and reduces cognitive load for users. If more than six tabs are needed, consider other navigation patterns, such as a sidebar.
- Avoid overflowing tabs to new lines. If the tabs can't fit on one row on small screens, consider using using a different navigation pattern.
- Don’t use tabs for destinations that are not related. Tabs should be connected by the same information object.
- Don’t use tabs when users need to compare the content behind them.

### Guidelines
**Labels**
- Tab labels should be descriptive of their content and set the user's expectations.
- Tab labels should be short — aim for no more than two words.

**Appearence**

- Don’t order tabs randomly. Order them based on user needs.
- Don’t use multiple rows of tabs as they destroy spatial memory. Tabs should be presented in one row.

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Tabs_Row_Do.png"
  do-text="Tabs should be presented in the same row."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Tabs_Row_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not use multiple rows of tabs as they destroy spatial memory."
%}

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Tabs_Order_Do.png"
  do-text="Order the tabs based on business and user needs."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Tabs_Order_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not order the tabs randomly. Order them based on business and user goals."
%}

## State
Tab behavior during default and active states are important because it lets users know where they are in the experience.
- Default: The default view.
- Active: Indicates the page that the user is viewing.

<!-- Content switch -->
<!-- Content switch tab 1 -->
{% capture state-default %}
{% include snippet.html code='
include code snippet here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 2 -->
{% capture state-active %}
{% include snippet.html code='
include code snippet 2 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Render Content -->
{% include content-switch.html for="state"
           content-1-label="Default" content-1=state-default
           content-2-label="Active" content-2=state-active
%}
<!-- End content switch -->



  
## Type  
There are three variations of tabs, standard, with counter and with dropdown. They are hierarchically the same but have different funtions.
  
<!-- Content switch -->
<!-- Content switch tab 1 -->
{% capture type-standard %}
{% include snippet.html code='
include code snippet 3 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 2 -->
{% capture type-withcounter %}
{% include snippet.html code='
include code snippet 4 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Content switch tab 3 -->
{% capture type-withdropdown %}
{% include snippet.html code='
include code snippet 5 here
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Render Content -->
{% include content-switch.html for="type"
           content-1-label="Standard"   content-1=type-standard
           content-2-label="With Counter" content-2=type-withcounter
           content-3-label="With Dropdown"   content-3=type-withdropdown
%}
<!-- End Content switch -->
  
  
