---
layout: post
category: "Web Components"
tag: "UI Components"
title: Badge
subtitle: "Badges are small descriptors, typically containing short set of characters or a number inside of a colored shape, that usually appear in the grid."
permalink: /web-components/badge/
---

## Overview

Badges help user to draw attention to the state of a record, using the specific short text appeal and colored shape background. Badges are also used to mark the type, belonging to the logic group or mark stages of the progress.  Color of the background usualy reinforces the text.

### When to use

Text badge normally appears in the grid with eye-catching appeal, typically displaying short and important information of a line record (state, group, type, etc).

### When not to use

Do not use a lot of badges in one grid. Users will lose the focus of attention and the grid will become overcrowded and hard to read.
Try to keep up to one column with badges in the grid. 

If you have more than 5 states, groups, etc. do not use badges to mark them, better to use simple text.

## Guidelines

### Text
A badge text should be clear and formed with one word. It communicates important things such as state and should be clear from first glance and to the point. 

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Badges_Guidelines_Text_do.png"
  do-text="Use short appealing word."
  dont-img="Badges_Guidelines_Text_do_not.png"
  dont-text="Do not use more than two words or words with imprecise meaning."
%}

### Color
Color as much as text should communicate important information.
If badges are used to mark belonging to the groups - then all items inside the certain group should have the same color badges.
If badges indicate the state - then all items with the same state should have the same color badges.

The recommended colors for state indicating are red for something terminated, failed, or discarded, yellow for the in-progress state, green for approved, checked, completed, grey for a draft or unfinished.

All colors should be taken from Coins Color Palette.

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Badges_Guidelines_Color_do.png"
  do-text="Use matching color and meaning, which reinforce one another."
  dont-img="Badges_Guidelines_Color_donot.png"
  dont-text="Do not mismatch text and color meaning."
%}

## Type

Each badge has a particular function and its design signals that function to the user. It is therefore very important that the different variants are implemented consistently across products, so that they message the correct information.

