---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Components"
title: Toggle
subtitle: "A toggle is used to quickly switch between two possible states. They are commonly used for “on/off” switches."
permalink: /web/toggle/
---

## Overview

Toggle switches are digital on/off switches. They prompt users to choose between two mutually exclusive options and always have a default value. Toggles should provide immediate results, giving users the freedom to control their preferences as needed.

### When to use

Toggle switches are best used for changing the state of system functionalities and preferences. 

### When not to use

When people need to perform extra steps for changes to take effect, use a check box instead. For example, if they must click a "Submit", "Next", or "OK" button to apply changes, use a check box.

## Guidelines

**Heading**
A heading may accompany a toggle to further clarify on the action the toggle will perform.

**Labels**
Use labels with a toggle so the action is clear. Labels should be three words or less and appear on the side of a toggle.

**Language**
Only replace the On/Off labels if there are more specific labels for the setting. For example, you might use Show/Hide if the setting is "Show images". Keep descriptive text concise, preferably use nouns. For example, "Focused inbox" or "WiFi"

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Toggle_Do.png"
  do-text="Use three words or less, be concise in meaning."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Toggle_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not use to much words or explain too much the functionality."
%}


## Component
{% include snippet.html code='
include snippet here
' %}
