---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Components"
title: Checkbox
subtitle: "Checkbox allows the user to select multiple values from several options."
permalink: /web/checkbox/
---

## Overview

In UI design, the checkbox is presented as a small square box on the screen. It has two states: checked and unchecked. When checked, the square will be filled with a check mark.

Checkboxes allow the choice of one option, no option or several options. There is no interdependence between checkboxes in a group. Each checkbox is given a label.

### When to use

Checkboxes are used when there are lists of options and the user may select any number of choices, including zero, one, or several. In other words, each checkbox is independent of all other checkboxes in the list, so checking one box doesn't uncheck the others. 

Checkboxes are used in forms and databases to indicate an answer to a question, apply a batch of settings or allow the user to make a multi-selection from a list. 

A stand-alone checkbox is used for a single option that the user can turn on or off.

### When not to use

Do not use checkboxes as action buttons that make something happen. Also, the changed settings should not take effect until the user clicks the command button (labeled "OK" for example, or "Proceed to XXX" where "XXX" is the next step in a process).

## Guidelines
### Text alignment

With checkboxes, we use right and left text alignment and avoid using top or bottom.

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Checkboxes_Do.png"
  do-text="Put text on the right or left side."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Checkboxes_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not put text at the top or bottom side."
%}

## Component

{% include snippet.html code='
<label class="checkbox">
  <input type="checkbox">
  <span>Checkbox label</span>
</label>
' %}
