---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Components"
title: Links
subtitle: "Links take users to another place, and usually appear within or directly following a sentence."
permalink: /web/links/
---

## Overview
Links are used as navigational elements. They may appear on their own, within a sentence or paragraph, or directly following the content.

Links are used as navigational elements and can be used on their own or inline with text. They provide a lightweight option for navigation but like other interactive elements, too many links will clutter a page and make it difficult for users to identify their next steps. This is especially true for inline links, which should be used sparingly.

### When to use

Use links when you want users to:
- Navigate to a different page within the application
- Navigate to an entirely different site
- Jump to an element on the same page
- Link to emails or phone numbers

### When not to use

Use [Buttons](../buttons/) instead of a link for actions that will change data or manipulate how it is displayed, change a state, or trigger an action. Buttons should never be used for navigational actions.

## Guidelines
Links need to be clear and predictable. Users should be able to anticipate what will happen when they select a link. Never mislead someone by mislabeling a link.

We recommend links be three words or fewer. Because links take users to a new location, it is important that their labels accurately reflect the content users will find at the link destination. Use meaningful labels for links and avoid terms like “click here” or the web address itself.

Links need to be clear enough to be understood by the user, but should not be so long that the text wraps unless used inline.

### Links in a sentence
Links in full sentences shouldn’t link the entire sentence, only the text that describes where users go when they select the link.
{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Links_Do.png"
  do-text="Link only the text that describes where users go."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Links_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not link the entire sentence."
%}

### Links outside of a sentence
Links that aren’t in full sentences should use the {verb + noun} pattern and not be punctuated, with the exception of question marks.

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Links_Punctuation_Do.png"
  do-text="Use the right puctuation."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Links_Punctuation_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not put the dot in the end of {verb + noun}."
%}

### Component
{% include snippet.html code='
I'm a <a href="#">link</a>.
' %}
