---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Components"
title: Divider
subtitle: "A divider is a thin line that groups content in lists and layouts."
permalink: /web/divider/
---

## Overview

The divider allows the content author to easily create a horizontal rule as a break between content to better organize information on a page. This way it helps a designer to organize the page according to the typical patterns of visual perception and make the layout clearer and more digestible for users.

### When to use

#### Full bleed divider
Full-bleed dividers separate content into sections, such as:
- Separating list and layout elements
- Indicating where an element may expand

#### Middle divider
Dividers can also be placed in the middle of a layout. They are best for separating related content, such prices on a receipt.

#### Vertical divider
A vertical line often is an effective solution for separating side by side content blocks.

### When not to use
Too many visual dividers, especially if they present the additional element of the layout like lines do, can create visual noise and make the user interface tiring for users. Prefer negative space to lines where it’s possible.

## Guidelines

A simple 1px line is an effective solution for separating horizontal content blocks and page sections. 
Adjusting the width of the line to either match the width of the surrounding content or allowing the line to fully bleed to the ends of the page can determine just how decisive the separating will be.
The color of divider should always be color #000000 opacity 10%

## Component

{% include snippet.html code='
<paste snippet here>
' %}
