---
layout: post
category: "Web"
tag: "UI Components"
title: Tooltips
subtitle: "A tooltip is a floating, non-actionable label used to explain a user interface element or feature."
permalink: /web/tooltips/
---

## Overview

Tooltips appear on hover and disappear after a short duration. When activated, tooltips display a text label identifying an element, such as a description of its function. Tooltips are always paired nearby the element with which they are associated and only include short, descriptive text.

### When to use

- Use when necessary to provide an explanation for an interface element.
- Use for helpful, non-critical information to strengthen an existing message.
- Use to increase certainty and enhance confidence about an interaction.
- Display a full string of text that is shortened with an ellipsis (…)

### When not to use

- Don’t hide information necessary for completing a task behind a tooltip interaction.
- Don’t use a tooltip to display a sophisticated layout and formatting.
- Don’t use a tooltip for communicating critical information, like errors. Use alert component instead.
- Tooltips are microcopy and should be brief. Don't use a tooltip if you need a lot of text.
- Don’t use a tooltip when its content is repetitive or if usability is obvious.

## Guidelines

### Position
The position of tooltips is flexible and will change depending on how close the element is to the edge of the screen. Tooltips should never obscure the target element.

### Content alignment
Content within a tooltip uses center-alignment.

### Content guidelines
Tooltips should be written in sentence case and be concise and scannable.

### Interaction
The tip is shown on mouse enter, and is hidden on mouse leave. 

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Tooltip_Text_Do.png"
  do-text="Write your tooltips to be concise and scannable."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Tooltip_Text_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not use a lot of text in a tooltip."
%}

{% include do-dont.html 
  do-img="Guidelines_Tooltip_Case_Do.png"
  do-text="Tooltips should be written in sentence case."
  dont-img="Guidelines_Tooltip_Case_Do_Not.png"
  dont-text="Do not use ALL CAPS or Title Case for tooltips."
%}

## Alignment

<!-- Content switch -->
<!-- Content switch tab 1 -->
{% capture align-top %}
{% include snippet.html code='
<any-tag data-tooltip-top="Hello, I&#39;m a tooltip!">Hover over me</any-tag>
' %}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture align-right %}
{% include snippet.html code='
<any-tag data-tooltip-right="Hello, I&#39;m a tooltip!">Hover over me</any-tag>
' %}
{% endcapture %}

{% capture align-bottom %}
{% include snippet.html code='
<any-tag data-tooltip-bottom="Hello, I&#39;m a tooltip!">Hover over me</any-tag>
' %}
{% endcapture %}
{% capture align-left %}
{% include snippet.html code='
<any-tag data-tooltip-left="Hello, I&#39;m a tooltip!">Hover over me</any-tag>
' %}
{% endcapture %}

<!-- Render Content -->
{% include content-switch.html for="align"
           content-1-label="Top"    content-1=align-top
           content-2-label="Right"  content-2=align-right
           content-3-label="Bottom" content-3=align-bottom
           content-4-label="Left"   content-4=align-left
%}
<!-- End content switch -->

| Alignment   | Attribute                                     | Usage                   |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| Top         | <span class="snip">data-tooltip-top</span>    | Top aligned tooltip.    |
| Right       | <span class="snip">data-tooltip-right</span>  | Right aligned tooltip.  |
| Bottom      | <span class="snip">data-tooltip-bottom</span> | Bottom aligned tooltip. |
| Left        | <span class="snip">data-tooltip-left</span>   | Left aligned tooltip.   |
{: .doc-table}
